In this lecture we will see how we can retrieve some information about the currently authenticated user.
So what I have here is the Visual Studio code on the left with the home controller active and on the
right there is our Web site with the home page active.
So if you guys are wondering how I achieved this split screen it's just a mark feature where I can split
the two applications into one screen anyway.
First let's log out and then make sure that you logging using some of the existing accounts or you can
just register because we have already implemented that and it works.
But I have an account so I will just log in and go to the home page.
Now the two fetch the currently authenticated user will use that our phosphate class.
So first will import it.
So it can be found inside Illuminate Support for phosphates.
So that's the class we will use.
And now it has a couple of static methods so the first one that might be interesting is ideas.
So let's surrounded with DDA to dump this idea of the currently authenticated user or the new value.
So let's see what it gets.
So we are receiving free.
And this happens to be the I.D. of the user that I am authenticated out.
So we will use that to fetch the I.D. of the currently authenticated user.
Or you can just open this health class by clicking it with the alt key pressed and you can see all the
possible methods that this failsafe can return.
So let's see our I.D. method.
So the I.T. method can return an integer which would be the idea of the user or no.
Alternatively there is the user method and the user method would return model of the currently authenticated
user.
So as you can see on the attributes it contains all the attributes of myself.
So the currently authenticated user.
Now the first useful method of this hourglass is check.
So this would just return a bullion of whether the current user is authenticated or not.
So this might also be useful.
So.
OK.
Now let's remove that.
Or alternatively I can just store that so you will know later how to use these comments and what is
available.
I will comment that out and commit that to the repository so we can always find this.
But now let's see how we can actually do something useful.
So let's open our layout so it would be inside resources views lay out the blade BHP so inside the layout
we can try to show the user name so maybe the only way we can put the user name might be inside the
logout button.
We can just surrounded with parentheses and inside it showed the current user name.
So in this case we can be pretty certain that the user is authenticated because this is what the guest
directive is doing.
So this would be only rendered when the user won't be authenticated and everything after else up to
there and the guest is only rendered when user is authenticated.
So here we can also interpolate safely using the South for Sayed and using the user function.
So user has this named field that we can display here.
So now let's go to the right side and refresh maybe now let's enlarge that a little bit and you can
see that this part was rendered.
So now inside the logout button we see the name of the current user.